‎And that is also the theme
‎for this month’s program:
‎“Keep Conquering the Evil With the Good.”
‎This challenging exhortation
‎was written by the apostle Paul
‎at Romans 12:21.
‎It’s challenging
‎because we live in a world
‎that is alienated
‎from God and the truth,
‎a world that tries
‎to squeeze everyone into its mold.
‎Isaiah 5:20 shows how the world
‎has changed God-given standards.
‎It reads:
‎“Woe to those who say
‎that good is bad
‎“and bad is good,
‎“those who substitute darkness for light
‎“and light for darkness,
‎“those who put bitter for sweet
‎and sweet for bitter!”
‎By adhering to the standard
‎“of healthful words” in the Scriptures
‎and to the examples
‎of faithful servants of the past,
‎we can ‘conquer the evil with the good.’
‎The faithful man Enoch was born
‎when Adam
‎was about 600 years old,
‎which means
‎that Enoch and Adam
‎were contemporaries
‎for about 300 years.
‎However, there is no record
‎of any contact between them
‎during that period of time.
‎The Scriptures indicate
‎that violence and hate for God
‎were widespread
‎in that pre-Flood world.
‎Many centuries later,
‎the disciple Jude described
‎the fear-inspiring prophecy
‎that God gave to Enoch
‎about Jehovah coming
‎with his holy myriads,
‎legions of mighty angels in battle array,
‎to bring destruction to all the ungodly.
‎Enoch fearlessly went about declaring
‎the coming judgment and destruction and,
‎what is more, he did it alone!
‎The prophecy was fulfilled
‎in the global Deluge,
‎and it set the pattern
‎of a greater destruction yet to come.
‎No wonder that Genesis 5:24 tells us
‎that “Enoch kept walking
‎with the true God.”
‎Enoch’s example gives us courage
‎to remain firm for true worship
‎even if family and friends
‎stand apart from us.
‎Enoch did not try to fit in
‎with the evil crowd
‎of the pre-Flood world,
‎and we don’t want to fit in
‎with the present dying world
‎and its evil ways.
‎We may feel alone at times,
‎but we are reminded
‎that Jehovah never abandoned Enoch,
‎and neither will He abandon
‎His faithful servants today.
‎We imitate Enoch
‎by not allowing
‎the evil surrounding us
‎to undermine our faith in Jehovah.
‎Like Enoch, we can
‎‘conquer the evil with the good’
‎by avoiding bad associations,
‎sticking close to Jehovah God
‎and the earthly part of his organization,
‎and boldly proclaiming the good news.
‎Elisha the prophet
‎refused to engage in ‘paying evil for evil,’
‎even when it seemed justified.
‎The account is found
‎at 2 Kings 6:14-23.
‎Syria was at war with Israel.
‎The king of Syria was enraged
‎because Elisha
‎was able to foresee wherever it was
‎that Syria was planning
‎to ambush the Israelites.
‎Elisha would warn
‎the king of Israel, and he, in turn,
‎would keep his troops away
‎from the place of ambush.
‎The king of Syria became exasperated
‎and wanted desperately
‎to take the prophet Elisha captive
‎to stop him
‎from warning the king of Israel.
‎It came about
‎that the king of Syria learned
‎that Elisha was in the city of Dothan,
‎so the king sent horses,
‎war chariots, as well as a large army
‎to surround Dothan by night
‎in order to take Elisha captive.
‎The following morning,
‎Jehovah listened to Elisha
‎and did something amazing.
‎He struck the Syrian troops
‎with a temporary form of blindness,
‎and Elisha guided all those troops,
‎not back to Syria, but to Samaria,
‎where the king of Israel resided.
‎The king of Israel was anxious
‎to strike down and kill the Syrian troops,
‎but Elisha said to him,
‎as recorded in verses 22 and 23
‎of 2 Kings chapter 6:
‎“‘You must not strike them down.
‎“‘Do you strike down
‎those whom you have taken captive
‎“‘with your sword and with your bow?
‎“‘Give them bread and water
‎so they may eat and drink
‎“and return to their lord.’
‎“So he spread a great feast for them,
‎“and they ate and drank,
‎after which he sent them away
‎to return to their lord.”
‎What a shock this must have been
‎to the Syrian soldiers,
‎who likely thought
‎that they were as good as dead!
‎This astounding turn of events
‎was far better than ‘paying evil for evil.’
‎How do we know it was better?
‎The latter part of verse 23 says:
‎“And not once did the marauder bands
‎of the Syrians come again
‎into the land of Israel.”
‎Can you imagine
‎the men of the Syrian army
‎relating to their king
‎what had taken place?
‎They went out to take Elisha captive.
‎However, Elisha,
‎with the help of Jehovah’s spirit,
‎had taken
‎the Syrians captive without a battle.
‎The Syrian king
‎must have been dumbfounded
‎when he heard the report.
‎And you can be sure
‎that the soldiers
‎of the Syrian army
‎were not only grateful
‎but they acquired
‎a very respectful fear of Jehovah
‎and of his prophet Elisha.
‎The good done to the Syrians
‎would not be soon forgotten.
‎Like Elisha,
‎we want to do
‎what is good for people,
‎including those
‎who do not view us favorably.
‎When tragedies such as fires, floods,
‎earthquakes, and hurricanes strike,
‎we go out of our way
‎to comfort people with the Scriptures.
‎Also, Jehovah’s Witnesses
‎serving as relief workers are well-known
‎for the practical assistance they render
‎to fellow believers and to others.
‎As a result, many people
‎have changed their view of us
‎and have come to appreciate
‎that in these last days,
‎Jehovah does indeed have
‎“a people for his name” on the earth.
‎At 2 Timothy 2:23-25,
‎the apostle Paul encourages us
‎to display qualities
‎that make us different from the world.
‎He says:
‎“Further, reject foolish
‎and ignorant debates,
‎“knowing that they produce fights.
‎“For a slave of the Lord
‎does not need to fight,
‎“but needs to be gentle toward all,
‎“qualified to teach,
‎showing restraint when wronged,
‎instructing with mildness
‎those not favorably disposed.”
‎And then Paul explains the desired result:
‎“Perhaps God may give them repentance
‎leading to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
‎Paul was “gentle toward all”
‎and “qualified to teach.”
‎He ‘showed restraint’
‎when he was imprisoned
‎by the Roman authorities
‎around 60 or 61 C.E.
‎He spent about two years
‎under house arrest in Rome,
‎perhaps even being chained to a guard.
‎He had done nothing
‎to merit imprisonment.
‎However, he did not dwell
‎on the evil done to him,
‎and he did not allow it
‎to make him bitter
‎and resentful of Roman authorities.
‎Rather, at Philippians 1:12-14,
‎Paul wrote:
‎“Now I want you to know, brothers,
‎“that my situation has actually turned out
‎“for the advancement of the good news,
‎“so that my prison bonds
‎for the sake of Christ
‎“have become public knowledge
‎“among all the Praetorian Guard
‎and all the rest.
‎“Now most of the brothers in the Lord
‎have gained confidence
‎“because of my prison bonds,
‎“and they are showing all the more courage
‎to speak the word of God fearlessly.”
‎In his letter to Titus
‎in chapter 3, verses 1 and 2,
‎Paul gives reminders
‎on how Christians today
‎can ‘conquer the evil with the good’
‎by showing proper respect
‎for governmental authorities
‎wherever we may live.
‎He writes:
‎“Continue reminding them
‎[fellow Christians]
‎“to be in subjection and to be obedient
‎“to governments and authorities,
‎“to be ready for every good work,
‎“to speak injuriously of no one,
‎“not to be quarrelsome,
‎“but to be reasonable,
‎displaying all mildness toward all men.”
‎Paul followed his own advice.
‎While in custody in Rome,
‎Paul wrote inspired letters
‎to Christian congregations
‎in Greece and Asia Minor,
‎and we today benefit
‎from the counsel in those letters.
‎Never do we read in his letters
‎criticism aimed at human rulers
‎or encouragement for Christians
‎to favor one political figure
‎or party over another.
‎He was “no part of the world,”
‎and he knew that man’s only hope
‎was the Kingdom of God.
‎Paul was a spiritual man,
‎and he ‘conquered the evil with the good’
‎by following
‎Jesus’ instructions at Mark 12:17
‎of giving “Caesar’s things to Caesar,
‎but God’s things to God,”
‎all the while displaying
‎“a mildness that belongs to wisdom.”
‎At 1 Peter 2:21,
‎we receive further direction
‎about the course that we are to follow.
‎Peter writes:
‎“In fact,
‎to this course you were called,
‎“because even Christ suffered for you,
‎leaving a model for you
‎to follow his steps closely.”
‎Some of Christ’s steps
‎are enumerated
‎in verses 22 and 23,
‎where it reads:
‎“He [Jesus] committed no sin,
‎“nor was deception found in his mouth.
‎“When he was being insulted,
‎“he did not insult in return.
‎“When he was suffering,
‎he did not threaten,
‎“but he entrusted himself
‎to the One who judges righteously.”
‎Jehovah is
‎“the One who judges righteously.”
‎However, the Jewish religious leaders
‎did not judge the Christ righteously.
‎They insulted Jesus frequently
‎and even accused him of having a demon.
‎Jesus did not stoop
‎to “return evil for evil,”
‎hurling insults or threatening people.
‎Insults and threats
‎do not open hearts
‎to accept the good news.
‎When Jesus was on trial,
‎the Jewish religious leaders
‎spurred the crowd on
‎to cry out for his execution.
‎The Roman authorities
‎had Jesus nailed to a torture stake
‎to suffer a cruel and excruciating death.
‎While suffering on the torture stake,
‎what did Jesus speak about?
‎Did he curse the Roman soldiers
‎who had mistreated him
‎and were now executing him?
‎To the contrary,
‎he ‘conquered the evil with the good.’
‎Among Jesus’ last words
‎are those recorded at Luke 23:34:
‎“Father, forgive them,
‎for they do not know
‎what they are doing.”
‎Jesus knew
‎that the Roman soldiers
‎were ignorant
‎of who he really was
‎and did not know
‎what they were doing.
‎He could forgive them with the hope
‎that they would eventually respond
‎to the truth and become his disciples.
‎In every respect,
‎Jesus ‘conquered the evil with the good,’
‎and he always displayed
‎complete confidence
‎in “the One who judges righteously,”
‎Jehovah God.
‎We want to demonstrate the same kind
‎of confidence in Jehovah and in his Word
‎that Jesus displayed.
‎We do our best to imitate the Christ
‎by applying the spirit-inspired counsel
‎at Romans 12:17, 18:
‎“Return evil for evil to no one.
‎“Take into consideration
‎“what is fine
‎from the viewpoint of all men.
‎“If possible, as far as it depends on you,
‎be peaceable with all men.”
‎Heeding this counsel
‎is particularly important
‎in homes that are religiously divided.
‎The Christian mate resists the temptation
‎to repay an unkind word or act
‎with another unkindness.
‎Really, no good comes
‎from ‘returning evil for evil.’
‎On the contrary, such an attitude
‎can only aggravate the situation.
‎In the domestic setting,
‎a wife who shows genuine kindness
‎to her husband
‎after he makes unpleasant comments
‎about her beliefs
‎may well diffuse
‎a potentially explosive situation.
‎At Proverbs 31:12,
‎we are told how a capable, God-fearing wife
‎deals with her husband:
‎“She rewards him with good,
‎not bad, all the days of her life.”
‎Additionally, by taking “into consideration
‎what is fine from the viewpoint of all men,”
‎Jehovah’s people
‎have often overcome prejudice
‎by providing practical assistance
‎to their neighbors as opportunity affords,
‎and particularly when a disaster strikes.
‎We conscientiously adhere
‎to Romans 12:19, which states:
‎“Do not avenge yourselves, beloved,
‎“but yield place to the wrath;
‎for it is written:
‎“‘“Vengeance is mine;
‎I will repay,” says Jehovah.’”
‎The footnote on verse 19 shows
‎that Paul is telling us
‎to yield to “God’s wrath,” or anger.
‎Jehovah is the one
‎who will set matters straight,
‎and he will do it
‎much better than we ever could.
‎As James 1:20 states:
‎“Man’s anger
‎does not bring about God’s righteousness.”
‎The theme of this discussion
‎is summarized exquisitely
‎at Romans 12:20, 21
‎with this direction
‎to all of Jehovah’s people:
‎“But ‘if your enemy is hungry, feed him;
‎“‘if he is thirsty,
‎give him something to drink;
‎“for by doing this
‎you will heap fiery coals on his head.’
‎“Do not let yourself be conquered by the evil,
‎but keep conquering the evil with the good.”